[telemetry example] initial import (#6116)
realm/realm-js: examples/example-node-telemetry/README.md

# Telemetry demo app using data ingest and Atlas Charts

A [node.js](https://nodejs.org) application to demonstrate how to use [Atlas Device Sync](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/app-services/device-sync) and [Realm JavaScript](https://github.com/realm/realm-js) to read sensor data, store the data in [Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas), and visualize it with [Charts](https://www.mongodb.com/products/charts).

The file structure is as follows:

```
├── README.md
├── package.json
├── src
│   ├── app.ts
│   ├── config.ts
│   └── models
│       ├── machine_info.ts
│       └── sensor_reading.ts
```

* `src/app.ts` - the actual application
* `src/config.ts` - contains the configuration (app id)
* `src/models/` - the model classes

## Altas App Services

> To use the app together with Atlas App Services, you need to create an Atlas database and collection. Moreover, you need to create App service and enable Device Sync. 

Reviewer: We should provide some helpful links here.

> ## Altas App Services
> 
> To use the app together with Atlas App Services, you need to create an Atlas database and collection. Moreover, you need to create App service and enable Device Sync. 

Reviewer 2: Making some updates to align with [this README](https://github.com/realm/realm-js/blob/main/examples/node-connection-and-error/README.md).

```suggestion
## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/)

### Set Up an Atlas App Services App

To sync Realm data you must first:

1. [Create an App Services App](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/manage-apps/create/create-with-ui/)
2. [Enable Anonymous Authentication](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/authentication/anonymous/)
3. [Enable Flexible Sync](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/sync/configure/enable-sync/) with **Development Mode** on.

After running the client and seeing the available collection in Atlas, [set write permissions](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/rules/roles/#define-roles---permissions) for the collection.
```

The schema to use (App Services / Data Access / Schema):

> ```json

Reviewer: Won't this be created automatically from `sensor_reading.ts`?

Author: If you are in developer mode, the schema will automatically be created. I'll clarify it.

{
  "title": "SensorReading",
  "type": "object",
  "required": [
    "_id",
    "freemem",
    "timestamp",
    "uptime"
  ],
  "properties": {
    "_id": {
      "bsonType": "objectId"
    },
    "freemem": {
      "bsonType": "long"
    },
    "loadAvg": {
      "bsonType": "array",
      "items": {
        "bsonType": "float"
      }
    },
    "machineInfo": {
      "title": "MachineInfo",
      "type": "object",
      "required": [
        "platform",
        "release"
      ],
      "properties": {
        "platform": {
          "bsonType": "string"
        },
        "release": {
          "bsonType": "string"
        }
      }
    },
    "timestamp": {
      "bsonType": "date"
    },
    "uptime": {
      "bsonType": "float"
    }
  }
}
```

Data can be visualized by [Charts](https://www.mongodb.com/products/charts). An example is shown below.

![An example on how Charts can visualize incoming data](./charts-example.png)

> 

Reviewer 2: Perhaps this could fit in its own subsection at the end of the file?

```
### Visualize Data

The data collected can be visualized using [Atlas Charts](https://www.mongodb.com/products/charts). Please see the link for more information.

An example chart is shown below.
![An example of how Charts can help visualize incoming data](./charts-example.png)
```

Author: Good point.

## How to build and run

You need to clone Realm JavaScript's git repository:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/realm/realm-js
cd realm-js

> git submodule update --init --recursive

Reviewer: I wonder if we should keep most of our examples encapsulated within the project, in so that the user of this will not have to compile core on their machine.  Perhaps just food for thought, but I have a feeling this will become a problem as some of these examples begin to roll out.

Author: It's a fair point. I will add it to a upcoming team meeting to discuss how to make it easier to run our examples.

```

Moreover, you need to install the dependencies for this app:

```sh
cd examples/example-node-telemetry
npm install
```

Before building the app, you need to add your app id to `src/config.ts`. After that, you can build and run the app:

```sh
npm run build
node dist/app.js

> ```

Reviewer 2: One improvement I think we could do here to provide a better DX is to let the example be independent of our repo. So e.g. having the README speak from the perspective of this example directory as the root. (Since `realm` is defined in the `package.json`, they shouldn't need our repo.)

I think the lines I marked here could be replaced with the following if you agree (ps. temporarily placing `\` in front of code blocks otherwise I can't show it in one code block here):
```
### Install Dependencies

\```sh
npm install
\```

### Run the App

1. [Copy your Atlas App ID](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/reference/find-your-project-or-app-id/#std-label-find-your-app-id) from the App Services UI.
2. Paste the copied ID as the value of the existing variable `ATLAS_APP_ID` in [src/atlas-app-services/config.ts](./src/atlas-app-services/config.ts):
\```ts
export const ATLAS_APP_ID = "YOUR_APP_ID";
\```

3. Start the app

\```sh
npm run build
npm start
\```
```

Notes:
* The mention of `ATLAS_APP_ID` assumes a refactor of the code, but you can always change it along with the link if you decide not to refactor 👍
* The code shown under `Start the app` assumes that a `start` script has been added in `package.json` (I left a previous alternative where the `start` script also calls the `build` script. If so, you could just show `npm start`).

Author: I think it is related to https://github.com/realm/realm-js/pull/6116/files#r1321373935

Reviewer 2: Yeah seems related 🙂 I believe the example runs fine without the `git submodule update`. Also if you e.g. copy the example directory to outside the js repo, it should run fine.

Author: True. And as @takameyer is saying, we should find a way to make the example easily accessible.

Reviewer: If we just don't add this to the workspaces, then it will treat itself like a separate project within `realm-js`.  Currently it is not in workspaces, so I guess the `git submodule update` isn't even a necessary step here.  It would just download the `realm` package into the local `node_modules`

Reviewer: Also, we should know as a team that if we want to test these examples against the local version of `realm`, this could be done by adding the example to the workspaces.  The only issue would be with the React Native projects, as these require a bit of configuration changes to work within the mono-repo.

# Telemetry demo app using Data Ingest and Atlas Charts

A [Node.js](https://nodejs.org) application to demonstrate how to use [Atlas Device Sync](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas/app-services/device-sync) and the [Realm Node.js SDK](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/node/) to read sensor data, store the data in [Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/atlas), and visualize it with [Atlas Charts](https://www.mongodb.com/products/charts). [Data Ingest](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/sync/configure/sync-settings/#data-ingest) is enabled since this app uses insert-only workloads.

## Project Structure

The following shows the project structure and the most relevant files.

```
├── src
│   ├── models

> │   │   ├── machine_info.ts
> │   │   └── sensor_reading.ts

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
│   │   ├── MachineInfo.ts
│   │   └── SensorReading.ts
```
